NMS-14621: Quick Start - Visualize Data (#5353)
OpenNMS/opennms: docs/modules/operation/pages/deep-dive/admin/webui/trends.adoc

= Trend

The Trend feature lets you display small, inline charts of database-related statistics (nodes experiencing outages, unacknowledged alarms, and so on).
You can view them by clicking menu:Status[Trend] in the top menu bar.

> You can also configure these charts to be displayed on the {page-component-title} Home page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also configure these charts to be displayed on the {page-component-title} home page.
```

To do this, modify the `org.opennms.web.console.centerUrl` parameter to include `/trend/trend-box.htm`.

.Example of a trend chart
image::webui/trend/trend-chart.png[]

> Trend charts can be defined and configured in `$\{OPENNMS_HOME}/etc/trend-configuration.xml`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can define and configure trend charts in `$\{OPENNMS_HOME}/etc/trend-configuration.xml`.
```

</trend-definition>
----

<1> The title of the Trend chart.
See below for supported variable substitutions.
<2> Subtitle of the Trend chart.
See below for supported variable substitutions.
<3> The visible flag.
This defines whether the chart is visible by default.
<4> The icon for the chart.
See https://getbootstrap.com/docs/4.1/extend/icons/[Icons] for options.
<5> Attributes defining the inline chart.
See http://omnipotent.net/jquery.sparkline/#common[jQuery Sparklines] for options.
<6> The description link.
<7> The description text.
See below for supported variable substitutions.
<8> The SQL statement that queries the chart's values.
+

> IMPORTANT: Don't forget to limit the SQL query's return values!

Reviewer: Why? Too many results?

Author: I'd assume so, but you're right - clarification would be good here.

> It is possible to use individual or aggregated values in the title, subtitle, and description fields.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use individual or aggregated values in the title, subtitle, and description fields.
```

The following table describes available variable substitutions:

[options="header, autowidth" cols="1,3,1"]
|===
| Name
| Description
| Type

| $\{intmax}
| Integer maximum value
| Integer

| $\{doublemax}
| Double maximum value
| Double

| $\{intmin}
| Integer minimum value
| integer

| $\{doublemin}
| Double minimum value
| Double

| $\{intavg}
| Integer average value
| Integer

| $\{doubleavg}
| Double average value
| Double

| $\{intsum}
| Integer sum of values
| Integer

| $\{doublesum}
| Double sum of values
| Double

| ${intValue[]}

> | An array of integer result values for the given SQL query.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| An array of integer result values for the given SQL query
```

| Integer array

| {doubleValue[]}

> | An array of double result values for the given SQL query.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| An array of double result values for the given SQL query
```

| Double array

| ${intValueChange[]}
| An array of integer value changes for the given SQL query.
| Integer array

| ${doubleValueChange[]}

> | An array of double value changes for the given SQL query.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| An array of double value changes for the given SQL query
```

| Double array

| $\{intlastvalue}

> | The last integer value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| The last integer value
```

| Integer

| $\{doublelastvalue}
| The last double value
| Double

| $\{intlastvaluechange}

> | The last integer value change.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| The last integer value change
```

| Integer

| $\{doublelastvaluechange}

> | The last double value change.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| The last double value change
```

</trend-definition>
----

<1> The title of the Trend chart.
See below for supported variable substitutions.
<2> Subtitle of the Trend chart.
See below for supported variable substitutions.
<3> The visible flag.
This defines whether the chart is visible by default.
<4> The icon for the chart.
See https://getbootstrap.com/docs/4.1/extend/icons/[Icons] for options.
<5> Attributes defining the inline chart.
See http://omnipotent.net/jquery.sparkline/#common[jQuery Sparklines] for options.
<6> The description link.
<7> The description text.
See below for supported variable substitutions.
<8> The SQL statement that queries the chart's values.
+
IMPORTANT: Don't forget to limit the SQL query's return values!

> If the query is set to fetch an unlimited number of results, its run time can increase significantly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Setting the query to fetch an unlimited number of results can increase its run time significantly.
```
